# 1.1 Executive Summary
Chandpur Enterprises Limited (CEL) is a diversified manufacturing company based in India that instituted its steel business in 2006. However, the division quickly suffered from various administrative decisions under the managing director, Akshay Mittal, that revolved around observing the most optimal utilization of raw materials for the August production. Steel can be created from any combinations, known as a "batch", of the seven raw materials in proper ratios of iron content: tasla, rangeen, sponge, local scrap, imported scrap, HC, and pig iron. But, material prices could fluctuate anywhere up to 20% in one month, so it is important to optimize each month. Other factors include rate/ton (in rupees), recovery percentage (weight of iron content over the total weight of raw material), batch limits, and monthly limits with a finished product size constraint of 4,000 kilograms (or 4 tons). The production of steel is also conditional on the total weight of raw material because both electricity (in kWh) and time (in hours) consumption costs are linearly dependent.

Linear programming (LP) is a mathematical modeling technique designed to help maximize monthly profits with respect to asset allocation through the maintenance of all these factors and additional variable costs, as well as the minimization of plant downtime. After a series of formulations, the consulting team can conclude both the optimal batch and a batch which will optimize monthly profits. The optimal batch has profit INR5421.07 with a monthly profit of INR1,460,640.995. The batch which optimizes monthly profits will bring in INR1,788,704.747 over the whole month. Suggestions for how to further increase profits include increasing regulatory size and increasing the amounts of certain preferred materials.
